Now that we are taking over javascript, time to execute some code so that we can actually see an
animation. Now the place to animate is the enter and the leave function because these are the functions which
get executed after the initial states have been set in beforeEnter and beforeLeave
and well before we're done.
So here in enter, besides logging this, I want to grow the width of this div,
so I want to grow it to the right, make it a bit broader
and upon leaving, I want to make it smaller, let's say these are the two animations I want to play here.
Now what I will do to play this is I will set up a variable round here with the let keyword, ES6 syntax
and then I'll set up interval,
setInterval because I want to grow it in steps of course and not instantly make it pop from
normal size to broader,
so here we do we need setInterval to play or to change something over some time and I want to set it
in an interval of let's say 20 milliseconds, so every 20 milliseconds, I want to change this div. Now in
this function here in the first argument of setInterval, I execute the code I want to change every 20
seconds, milliseconds.
So here I want to access my element, there the style and then let's say the width and I want to
set the width to,
now to what? To the width it right now has plus something which depends on the round we are currently
in.
So I want to bind it to element style width, so the current width plus round times 10, let's say,
so in round one, we add 10 pixels, in round two, we add 20 pixels and so on.
Now this will make it grow exponentially though because we would take the old width and then add ever
higher numbers to it,
so that's not really, that's not what I want,
instead I will save a new property which I'll name elementWidth and I'll set this to 100 because I want
to have 100 pixels being the default.
This means I can now use this here, this element width
and now I will make it grow from 100 to 110, from 100 to 120 because this will always stay constant, it
never changes,
it's only the width to which is attached, attached here,
adjusted here, excuse me.
So let's put this into parentheses to execute this calculation first before we then convert it into
a string and add pixels
in the end because we need to set it in pixels in the end and not as a number. This shall change the styling,
then of course we also need to increase the round by one so that this round variable increases and we
want to set up an exit condition,
so if round is greater than 20 if we executed this 20 times let's say, then I want to clear the interval
with the clearInterval method and passing the interval which we stored in a constant
and I want to call done here and don't want to call it outside of that because that was what, that is
what I was talking before about. I don't want to execute or don't want to mark this as finished once
this code has been executed because we do have an asynchronous operation there,
therefore done shall be executed once we really are done,
once we reach this exit condition here. Now with this, looks good
but we should also set the initial width here in beforeEnter,
so here we should set element width to 100,
we don't really change it but just to make sure that it really is 100 and then we want to set the element
style, the width to this element
width plus pixels, so that we reset it to 100 before adding it to the dom
because if we added it before and we removed it, this might have been in a different state especially if
we cancel some animation in between,
so therefore we want to make sure that we reset everything here in beforeEnter.
Well and with that set up, we can of course also go to beforeLeave down there where we also want
to configure it, though here
we definitely want to set the element style width to let's say 300 pixels, like this. This is where it'll be at
in the end after our enter animation here because we animated up all the way to 20 pixels, to 20
times 10 plus 100, so to 300 pixels.
Well and for animating it out, I can simply copy the code from the enter function here, override the done
function because we want to call this in our exit condition here too
and the only thing I need to change here is that I want to of course decrease the width. Though this
element width will always be 100,
so for this to work, we should also add something here in beforeLeave and set this element width to
300 and then we can also override this here to use this element width plus pixels here again,
so now it also makes sense to reset this to 100 in beforeEnter.
Let's see if this works as it should,
if we have a look at this
application, we can load it to grow it and then shrink it, load it, shrink it, load it and shrink it.
Now you see if we load it for the first time, we get this ugly jump because then our initial width doesn't
fit the initial width it should have
once it is attached to the dom and we can easily fix this by going to our code and set the width to 300
here. And now you see, that looks pretty good,
now we get the animations we wanted. Now all done through Javascript
and just to highlight this once more, you can mix javascript animations and css animations,
here I just wanted to show the well the extreme opposite by just using javascript.
Mixing it is fine, if you do use only javascript,
consider using these css attributes here though to tell vuejs that it may skip the css detection.